Full job description

Export Control Regulations
Applicants for employment at Xplore must be a U.S. citizen or national, U.S. permanent resident (i.e. current Green Card holder), or lawfully admitted into the U.S. as a refugee or granted asylum. Xplore will not sponsor or transfer work visa (H1B, H4, F1/OPT) for this role.

About Xplore:
Xplore is at the forefront of the next space revolution. We are a venture-backed company and are launching revolutionary satellites designed to deliver a new class of innovative and affordable space data products and edge computing services. Join Xplore and be part of a team that's pushing the boundaries of space exploration and shaping the future of space data infrastructure.

Apply using this link: https://apply.workable.com/xplore-inc/j/F838806BAD/

Position Description:
Xplore is hiring this Senior Software Engineer to advance Major Tom’s satellite tasking, telemetry, and tracking software that is currently used by Xplore and external customers. The successful candidate will build new highly scalable, on-demand satellite tasking capability and other services for Xplore’s own satellites and integrate with data marketplaces from order to delivery.

The individual will own end-to-end software development within Major Tom, solve for complex architectural challenges, and play a pivotal role in developing and maintaining the critical software that controls our satellite operations. This software will be used by our team to schedule task/order requests, optimize satellite operations, and ensure the efficient collection of valuable data from space.

Work will be performed at Xplore in Bellevue 5 days a week. This role will report to the Product Manager for Major Tom. The successful candidate must be able to demonstrate an ability to work with minimal supervision while being responsive and flexible within the framework of an agile space start-up.

Requirements:

    Bachelor's degree in computer science engineering or a related technical field.
    Minimum 5 years of experience in Senior Software Engineering with strong skills in both front-end (e.g., React, Angular); back-end (e.g., Ruby, Python, Java) technologies; and cloud infrastructure (e.g., AWS, Azure)
    2+ years of experience building scalable applications using microservices architecture.
    Demonstrated foundational understanding of software architecture, event-driven microservices, interface design, and automated testing patterns.
    Ability to work under pressure at a fast-pace.
    Must be a current U.S. citizen or current lawful permanent resident of the U.S.

Preferred Qualifications:

    Experience working with managed kafka services and terraform
    DevOps experience (strongly desired)
    Ability to work quickly with minimal supervision

Apply using this link: https://apply.workable.com/xplore-inc/j/F838806BAD/

Responsibilities for this role include:

    Develop new features and services for optimizing satellite scheduling, automating spacecraft operations, command and telemetry pipeline, image processing/formation data pipeline, and anomaly response
    Integrate mission control software with commercial ground station infrastructure and satellite imagery marketplaces via RESTful APIs.
    Design, develop, and implement automated build, test, and deployment pipelines using DevOps tools and methodologies (e.g., GitLab CI/CD, Docker, Kubernetes).
    Collaborate with the satellite operations team to understand their needs and translate them into technical requirements.
    Identify and troubleshoot customer-reported issues and implement solutions.
    Prepare and maintain technical documentation for the software.

Plan of Action:

As the final part of this hiring process, the candidate will outline their top priorities to be accomplished during their first six months. This should include what has been listed below but needs to be submitted in a format where the performance and success of completion can be measured.

Top Priorities to be Accomplished During the First Six Months:

    Develop and innovate features of our satellite tasking system from scratch
    Own and deliver assigned feature requests end-to-end and deliver the features on-time

Compensation

The base salary range for this role is $140K-$160K

Stock Option Plan
The company offers an equity incentive plan for qualified full-time employees.

Health Care Plan
Employees (and their families) can be covered by medical, dental, vision, and basic life insurance. The HSA qualified plan is for full-time employees working 30 hours or more per week.

Paid Time Off (Vacation, Sick & Public Holidays)
Full time employees earn PTO at a rate of 1.33 days per month. There are a minimum of 13 paid holidays each year for full-time employees.

Company Culture

Our company and culture is designed around smart, fun-loving individuals who:

· Enjoy building, launching, and operating in the space industry

· Love being surrounded by "A" players who bring their all to the job

· Take pride in the work created, are self-driven and naturally wired for performance

· Embrace challenges and find solutions working with other talented, innovative and collaborative team members

At the office we drive each other to be the best engineers and builders we can be. After hours, our minds don't stop working – space is exciting and we share ideas and keep the conversation going as new ideas strike.

Xplore folks enjoy intellectual and physical challenges - build flight-worthy aircraft, make hand-crafted furniture, build massive LEGO sets, capture award-winning photos in the National Parks, and more.

Come join us!

Apply using this link: https://apply.workable.com/xplore-inc/j/F838806BAD/

More About Xplore

Please click for company website

EEO/ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

Xplore is an equal opportunity employer; employment with Xplore is governed on the basis of merit, competence and qualifications. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.

This employer participates in E-Verify. In compliance with federal law, all persons hired will be required to verify identity and eligibility to work in the United States and to complete the required employment eligibility verification form upon hire. All persons hired will be required to be a U.S. citizen, a lawful permanent resident of the U.S., or protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3), or eligible to obtain the required authorizations from the U.S. Department of State.

Apply using this link: https://apply.workable.com/xplore-inc/j/F838806BAD/

Job Type: Full-time

Pay: $140,000.00 - $160,000.00 per year

Benefits:

    401(k)
    Dental insurance
    Health insurance
    Health savings account
    Life insurance
    Paid holidays
    Paid time off
    Vision insurance

Compensation Package:

    Bonus opportunities
    Employee stock ownership plan

Schedule:

    Monday to Friday

Education:

    Bachelor's (Preferred)

Experience:

    Full-stack development: 1 year (Preferred)

Ability to Commute:

    Bellevue, WA 98007 (Preferred)

Ability to Relocate:

    Bellevue, WA 98007: Relocate before starting work (Preferred)

Work Location: In person
&nbsp;
